---

layout: post
title: "(Web) Scraping the World"
author: "June Ferre"
date: 2025-03-13
description: "A brief overview of the basics of webscraping using [BudgetYourTrip.com](budgetyourtrip.com)"
image: /assets/images/webscrape.jpg

---

### **Why Travel Costs?**

Traveling has always been an interest of humanity. However now, more than ever before, it is more accessible and affordable. I would also argue that social media has influenced an increase of travel as well, making it quite the hot topic and "cool thing to do". Like many, I have been interested in traveling since I was a little girl, dreaming of unique sights, architecture, art, and culture that traveling has to offer. While I've traveled some, my desire to explore the world continues. 

Many people would agree that traveling during college is a great time to travel due to flexibility. However, college can be expensive, as can traveling! So in an effort to better understand how much money should be allotted to saving for travels, I made a dataset that contains the [Wikipedia's 2018/2016 top 100 ranked Most Visited Cities](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cities_by_international_visitors) and [Budget Your trip's](https://www.budgetyourtrip.com/) pricing information for the corresponding cities. 

<br><br>


### **What is the average amount Mid-Range budget travelers spend per day in the Top 100 Most Visited Cities in the world from 2016-2018?**

Before gathering my data, my question focused on one question, "What is the average amount Mid-Range budget travelers spend per day in the Top 100 Most Visited Cities in the world from 2016-2018?" However, since gathering the data, there are many more questions I've asked and will share with you further on in the post. 

<br><br>

### **Ethics & Good Practice**

#### **Wikipedia**

We scraped a Wikipedia table in class which felt like a green flag to scrape Wikipedia again, but just to be sure I read through the robots.txt file. 

#### **BudgetYourTrip.com**

I first read the robots.txt file which specified that it disallowed using the Search feature but nothing else. I then checked the [Privacy/Terms of Use](https://www.budgetyourtrip.com/termsofuse.php) which indicates scraping is prohibited unless you have written consent. To comply with their conditions, I emailed the provided email and explained what I was using the data for. They gave me written consent to scrape their data as long as I followed a few conditions.  

<br><br>

### **Web scraping basics**

I'm by no means and expert at web scraping, but I'll provide some basic yet helpful steps I took to start a project like this. 

#### **#1 Find a Source of Data**

Depending on the question you are trying to answer/topic you're interested in, this is arguably the hardest part of the process. During my search for data, I realized that real-world data hardly ever comes in a perfectly neat dataset with all the information you might need to answer your question. Infact, the data you do find rarely contains all the information you need, which means you will probably need multiple sources of data. Sometimes you find out your question just doesn't have accessible data, so if that's the case you might have to adjust your question tailored to data that is accessible. 

**Note**: Always check the Terms of Use and robots.txt file to ensure it is ethically scraped. 


#### **#2 Inspecting the Website**
The first thing you want to ensure is that your browser will allow you to inspect the webpages. I know Safari doesn't offer this option, but Google Chrome does allow you to inspect a webpage. 

The other thing you want to be familiar with is looking at the tags in the html code, and being able to know which tags indicate your desired data. 


#### **#3 Setting up the Code**
Scraping tables is rather easy, especially on Wikipedia, so I'm going to show you how I went about scraping [Wikipedia's 2018/2016 top 100 ranked Most Visited Cities Table](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cities_by_international_visitors).

While the code below is good for scraping Wikipedia tables, there are other ways to go about webscraping. For example, if you have to go through a list of links, you might need to use a For loop. I'll have a link to the rest of my code at the end of the post that you can refer to. 

(This format can be a good outline of any web scraping code.)

```
# import necessary packages
import pandas as pd
import requests 
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

# defining the url we'll be using to scrape the table
wiki_url = 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cities_by_international_visitors'

# saving the requests.get(wiki_url) to a variable, so we don't have to keep writing that
r = requests.get(wiki_url)

# extracts raw HTML text from the response object (r)
text = r.text

# passing the raw HTML text to Beautiful Soup which converts it to a structured format that makes data extraction easier
soup = BeautifulSoup(r.text)

# uses pandas to extract all HTM tables from the (wiki_url)
tables = pd.read_html(wiki_url)

# selects the third table from the list of tables 
top_cities = tables[2]

# removes the Na values
top_cities = top_cities.dropna(subset= ['Rank (Euromonitor)'])

# extracts the listed columns
final_top = top_cities[['Rank (Euromonitor)', 'City', 'Country / Territory']]

# saving this to a .csv file
final_top.to_csv('top_cities.csv')

```

### **What did we learn?**

**NOTE: This is based off of [Budget Your Trip's](budgetyourtrip.com) Mid-Range Budget. (There are three tiers: Budget, Mid-Range, Luxury)**

#### Most Expensive City: Las Vegas, USA
#### Cheapest City: Hurghada, Egypt 

#### Top 5 Most Expensive Cities (Avg Daily Cost USD): 
1. Las Vegas, Nevada ($369/day)
2. Orlando, Florida ($368/day)
3. New York City, New York ($363/day)
4. Honolulu, Hawaii($322/day)
5. Los Angeles, California ($300/day)

#### Top 5 Cheapest Cities (Avg Daily Cost USD): 
1. Hurghada, Egypt ($19/day)
2. Jaipur, India ($22/day)
3. Chennai, India ($33/day)
4. Agra, India ($45/day)
5. Kolkata, India ($46/day)

#### Top 5 Most Expensive Countries (Avg Daily Cost USD): 
1. United States of America ($318.71/day)
2. United Kingdom ($274/day)
3. Denmark ($248/day)
4. United Arab Emirates ($243/day)
5. Australia ($241/day)

#### Top 5 Cheapest Countries (Avg Daily Cost USD):
1. Egypt ($19/day)
2. India ($47/day)
3. Saudi Arabia ($53/day)
4. Malaysia ($64.67/day)
5. Vietnam ($68.25/day)

#### Here's a little interactive graph to see the Countrys' Daily Costs

<iframe src="{{site.url}}/{{site.baseurl}}/assets/country_avgs_map.html" width="800" height="600"></iframe>

### **Sources**
[Wikipedia's 2018/2016 top 100 ranked Most Visited Cities](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cities_by_international_visitors)

[Budget Your trip](https://www.budgetyourtrip.com/)


### **GitHub Repo w/ Code**

[My GitHub](https://github.com/juneferre/travel_costs)
